New SDKv2/logging documentation section (#1011)
hashicorp/terraform-plugin-sdk: website/docs/plugin/sdkv2/logging/http-transport.mdx

Unfortunately this helper is designed to log the entirety of each request/response it handles, including every header and the entire body, regardless of how _sensitive_ the content is. Over time security concerns have been [raised](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-sdk/issues/2), and required provider developers to build [workarounds](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-tfe/pull/479).

The recommended way to produce logs from your provider is using **[terraform-plugin-log](https://www.terraform.io/plugin/log)** library, and that provides [log filtering](https://www.terraform.io/plugin/log/filtering) functionality. So, we built a new _RoundTripper_ to deprecate the existing one.

# Setting up logging for HTTP Transactions

> SDK offers helpers to put in place logging of HTTP Transactions: it’s built on top of **[terraform-plugin-log](https://www.terraform.io/plugin/log)**, so it allows to leverage its features, without having to write the whole implementation of `http.RoundTripper`.
> 
> There are 2 functions inside the package `helper/logging`, each targeting a specific logging setup that the provider developer might have chosen (see [“Writing Log Output”](https://www.terraform.io/plugin/log/writing) for details):
> 
> * `NewLoggingHTTPTransport(transport http.RoundTripper)`
> * `NewSubsystemLoggingHTTPTransport(subsystem string, transport http.RoundTripper)`
> 
> Using one or the other depends on the developer, and if they want their logging to happen against the `tflog` Provider root logger, or against a `tflog` Provider [Subsystem logger](https://www.terraform.io/plugin/log/writing#subsystems). For the latter, the only thing to remember is that the `subsystem` string used with `NewSubsystemLoggingHTTPTransport()`, has to match the [pre-created subsystem logger name](https://www.terraform.io/plugin/log/writing#create-subsystems).
> 
> To make use of our logging transport, there are 2 things that a provider developer should do:
> 
> * Setting up the HTTP Client to use this new Transport
> * Ensuring that each HTTP Request, before being submitted to the Client, carries the configured `context.Context`, storing the desired logging configuration

Reviewer: Again just streamlining a bit. I especially want your extras about the two methods to be connected to those methods. It's easier for users to parse information like this if we present an option and give the explanation right there, rather than asking the to read what's in the paragraph and mentally map that back to the options we gave in the bullets. 

I also want to make this last part into an intro sentence for the two subparts of the process we're going to outline below. 

```suggestion
The recommended logging helper for SDK is built on top of [terraform-plugin-log](https://www.terraform.io/plugin/log). This lets you leverage the features from our structured logging framework without having to write an entire implementation of `http.RoundTripper`.

There are two functions inside `helper/logging` that target a specific logging setup for your provider. Refer to [“Writing Log Output”](https://www.terraform.io/plugin/log/writing) for details.

* `NewLoggingHTTPTransport(transport http.RoundTripper)`: Use this method when you want logging against the `tflog` Provider root logger.
* `NewSubsystemLoggingHTTPTransport(subsystem string, transport http.RoundTripper)`: Use this method when you want logging against a `tflog` Provider [Subsystem logger](https://www.terraform.io/plugin/log/writing#subsystems). The `subsystem` string you use with `NewSubsystemLoggingHTTPTransport()` must match the [pre-created subsystem logger name](https://www.terraform.io/plugin/log/writing#create-subsystems).

To set up HTTP transport, you must create the HTTP Client to use the new transport and then add logging configuration to the HTTP request context.
```

> ## Creating HTTP Client that uses the new logging transport

Reviewer: These seem like sub-steps of the higher level setup heading, so I'm making them H3. let me know if I'm incorrect on that! :) 
```suggestion
### Creating the HTTP Client 
```

> Once the correct _Transport _has been created, it should be used when setting up the `http.Client` that the provider is going to use. For example, a good place to set up the client could be the `schema.Provider` `ConfigureContextFunc`:
> 
> ```go
> func New() (*schema.Provider, error) {
>     return &schema.Provider{
>         // omitting the rest of the schema definition
> 
>         ConfigureContextFunc: func (ctx context.Context, rsc *schema.ResourceData) (interface{}, diag.Diagnostics) {
> 
>             // omitting provider-specific configuration logic
> 
>             transport := logging.NewLoggingHTTPTransport(http.DefaultTransport)
>             client := http.Client{
>                 Transport: transport,
>             }
> 
>             return client, diag.Diagnostics{}
>         }
>     }
> }
> ```
> 
> This will set up a client that is identical to the default Golang `http.Client`, except it uses the new logging transport.

Reviewer: We want to explain what's going to happen in an example right before. That way, the user is primed to understand what we're about to show them!

```suggestion
After you create the transport , you must use to set up the `http.Client` for the provider. The following example sets up the client in `schema.Provider` `ConfigureContextFunc`. The client is identical to the default Golang `http.Client`, except it uses the new logging transport.

```go
func New() (*schema.Provider, error) {
    return &schema.Provider{
        // omitting the rest of the schema definition

        ConfigureContextFunc: func (ctx context.Context, rsc *schema.ResourceData) (interface{}, diag.Diagnostics) {

            // omitting provider-specific configuration logic

            transport := logging.NewLoggingHTTPTransport(http.DefaultTransport)
            client := http.Client{
                Transport: transport,
            }

            return client, diag.Diagnostics{}
        }
    }
}
```
```

> ## Sending HTTP Requests with the appropriate Context

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Adding Context to HTTP Requests
```

> All calls to `tflog` package functionality must use an SDK provided `context.Context`, which stores the logging implementation. Providers written with `terraform-plugin-sdk` must use context-aware functionality, such as the [`helper/schema.Resource` type `ReadContext` field](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-sdk/v2/helper/schema#Resource.ReadContext).
> 
> Use [`http.NewRequestWithContext()` function](https://pkg.go.dev/net/http#NewRequestWithContext) to create an HTTP request that includes the logging configuration from the `context.Context`. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All calls to the `tflog` package must contain an SDK provided `context.Context` that stores the logging implementation. Providers written with `terraform-plugin-sdk` must use context-aware functionality, such as the [`helper/schema.Resource` type `ReadContext` field](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-sdk/v2/helper/schema#Resource.ReadContext).

The following example uses [`http.NewRequestWithContext()` function](https://pkg.go.dev/net/http#NewRequestWithContext) to create an HTTP request that includes the logging configuration from the `context.Context`. 
```

```go
// inside a context-aware Resource function
req, err := http.NewRequestWithContext(ctx, "GET", "https://www.terraform.io", nil)
if err != nil {
	return fmt.Errorf("Failed to create a new request: %w", err)
}

res, err := client.Do(req)
if err != nil {
	return fmt.Errorf("Request failed: %w", err)
}
defer res.Body.Close()
```

> Use the [`(http.Request).WithContext()` method](https://pkg.go.dev/net/http#Request.WithContext) to set the context for the `http.Request` if the request is generated separate from where the `context.Context` is available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the [`(http.Request).WithContext()` method](https://pkg.go.dev/net/http#Request.WithContext) to set the context for the `http.Request` if the request is generated separately from where the `context.Context` is available.
```

> ## Log format for an HTTP Transaction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## HTTP Transaction Log Format
```

> Each HTTP Transaction processed by the new logging transport, will result in 2 log entries. Here is how the log for the HTTP Request towards [https://terraform.io](https://terraform.io) looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The logging transport produces two log entries for each HTTP transaction: one for the request and one for the response. 

### Request Example

The following example shows a log generated from an HTTP Request to [https://terraform.io](https://terraform.io).
```

```text
2022-07-26T18:54:08.880+0100 [DEBUG] provider: Sending HTTP Request: Accept-Encoding=gzip Content-Length=0 \
    Host=www.terraform.io User-Agent=Go-http-client/1.1 \
    tf_http_op_type=request tf_http_req_method=GET \
    tf_http_req_uri=/ tf_http_req_version=HTTP/1.1 tf_http_trans_id=7e80e48d-8f32-f527-1412-52a8c84359e7
```

> And, if [logging in JSON format](https://www.terraform.io/internals/debugging) is enabled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows the same logs after you enable [logging in JSON format](https://www.terraform.io/internals/debugging).
```

```json
{
    "@level": "debug",
    "@message": "Sending HTTP Request",
    "@module": "provider",
    "@timestamp": "2022-07-26T18:54:08.880+0100",

    "Accept-Encoding": "gzip",
    "Content-Length": "0",
    "Host": "www.terraform.io",
    "User-Agent": "Go-http-client/1.1",

    "tf_http_op_type": "request",
    "tf_http_req_body": "",
    "tf_http_req_method": "GET",
    "tf_http_req_uri": "/",
    "tf_http_req_version": "HTTP/1.1",
    "tf_http_trans_id": "7e80e48d-8f32-f527-1412-52a8c84359e7"
}
```

> And the corresponding HTTP Response:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Response Example

The following example shows logs from a [https://terraform.io](https://terraform.io) HTTP response.
```

```text
2022-07-26T18:54:10.734+0100 [DEBUG] provider: Received HTTP Response: Age=9 \
    Cache-Control="public, max-age=0, must-revalidate" Content-Type=text/html \
    Date="Tue, 26 Jul 2022 13:16:46 GMT" Etag="... ABCDEFGH..." Server=Vercel \
    Strict-Transport-Security="max-age=63072000" X-Frame-Options=SAMEORIGIN X-Matched-Path=/ \
    X-Nextjs-Cache=HIT X-Powered-By=Next.js X-Vercel-Cache=STALE \
    X-Vercel-Id=lhr1::iad1::lx2h8-99999999999999-fffffffffff \
    tf_http_op_type=response tf_http_res_body="... LOTS OF HTML ..." tf_http_res_status_code=200 \
    tf_http_res_status_reason="200 OK" tf_http_res_version=HTTP/2.0 \
    tf_http_trans_id=7e80e48d-8f32-f527-1412-52a8c84359e7
```

> And in JSON format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
he following example shows the same logs in JSON format.
```

```json
{
    "@level": "debug",
    "@message": "Received HTTP Response",
    "@module": "provider",
    "@timestamp": "2022-07-26T18:54:10.734+0100",

    "Age": "9",
    "Cache-Control": "public, max-age=0, must-revalidate",
    "Content-Type": "text/html",
    "Date": "Tue, 26 Jul 2022 13:16:46 GMT",
    "Etag": "... ABCDEFGH...",
    "Server": "Vercel",
    "Strict-Transport-Security": "max-age=63072000",
    "X-Frame-Options": "SAMEORIGIN",
    "X-Matched-Path": "/",
    "X-Nextjs-Cache": "HIT",
    "X-Powered-By": "Next.js",
    "X-Vercel-Cache": "STALE",
    "X-Vercel-Id": "lhr1::iad1::lx2h8-99999999999999-fffffffffff",

    "tf_http_op_type": "response",
    "tf_http_res_body": "... LOTS OF HTML ...",
    "tf_http_res_status_code": 200,
    "tf_http_res_status_reason": "200 OK",
    "tf_http_res_version": "HTTP/2.0",
    "tf_http_trans_id": "7e80e48d-8f32-f527-1412-52a8c84359e7"
}
```

> The log contains various parts, represented as [fields](https://www.terraform.io/plugin/log/writing#fields) in the JSON format above. It’s important to familiarize yourself with those:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Log Information

Each log contains the following information, which is represented as [fields](https://www.terraform.io/plugin/log/writing#fields) in the JSON format.

|             Log field name | Description                                                                                                                                                              | Possible values                                                                                       |     Applies to     |
|---------------------------:|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------:|
|          `tf_http_op_type` | Which HTTP operation log refers to                                                                                                                                       | [`request`, `response`]                                                                               | Request / Response |

> |         `tf_http_trans_id` | Unique identifier used by Request and Response that belong to the same HTTP Transaction.                                                                                 | A universally unique identifier ([UUID](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier)) | Request / Response |

Reviewer: We don't have periods on these anywhere else.

```suggestion
|         `tf_http_trans_id` | Unique identifier used by Request and Response that belong to the same HTTP Transaction                                                                                 | A universally unique identifier ([UUID](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier)) | Request / Response |
```

|  `tf_http_res_status_code` | Response status code                                                                                                                                                     | A canonical [HTTP status code](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status)              |      Response      |
| `tf_http_res_status_reason | Response status reason                                                                                                                                                   | Canonical textual description of the corresponding `tf_http_res_status_code`                          |      Response      |
|      `tf_http_res_version` | Response HTTP version                                                                                                                                                    | Ex. `"HTTP/2.0"`                                                                                      |      Response      |

> |             (Other fields) | Request / Response headers. One field per header. If header contains a single value, field value will be set to that. Otherwise, field value will be a slice of strings. |                                                                                                       | Request / Response |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|             (Other fields) | Request / Response headers. One field per header. If the header contains a single value, the log field value is set to that value. Otherwise, the field value is a slice of strings. |                                                                                                       | Request / Response |
```

> ## Filtering sensitive data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Filtering Sensitive Data
```

> To configure [log filtering](https://www.terraform.io/plugin/log/filtering) in the HTTP Transport to the provider needs, all it is required is to configure the `context.Context` before it's set in the `http.Request`.
> 
> For example, when using `NewSubsystemLoggingHTTPTransport()` to log our HTTP Transactions, to mask all the header values of the HTTP Requests containing an `Authorization` and `Proxy-Authorization` credentials:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To [filter logs](https://www.terraform.io/plugin/log/filtering), you must configure the `context.Context` before before it is added to the `http.Request`.

The following example masks all the header values of HTTP Requests containing an `Authorization` and `Proxy-Authorization` credentials.
```

```go
// inside a context-aware Resource function
ctx := tflog.SubsystemMaskFieldValuesWithFieldKeys(ctx, "my-subsystem", "Authorization")
ctx = tflog.SubsystemMaskFieldValuesWithFieldKeys(ctx, "my-subsystem", "Proxy-Authorization")

req, err := http.NewRequestWithContext(ctx, "GET", "https://www.terraform.io", nil)
if err != nil {
	return fmt.Errorf("Failed to create a new request: %w", err)
}

res, err := client.Do(req)
if err != nil {
	return fmt.Errorf("Request failed: %w", err)
}
defer res.Body.Close()
```

# Resources

> * [Plugin Development](https://www.terraform.io/plugin)

Author: Maybe this section is too large (too many links) or too vague, but what I was trying to do here is to provide what usually is a "Links" list at the end of a doc, to recap all the external resources that they might be interested to read after this.

But what I could try to do is to add a bit of extra description to explain what they are clicking on. Let me give it a try.
